IITM Pravartak Manager C1
Hello, everyone. Let's just get started. Today, we have Vishal Nagbal. He will be taking your, masterclass today. Vishal, if you could just introduce yourself to these students, and we can
Get started from there.

Vishal Nagpal
00:13:28
Hey, everyone. Michelle over here, heading the data and AI team.
solutions for e-commerce team at Best Buy, so people were not aware of Best Buy, it's,
It's an omni-channel retailer, in the US, speciality, into electronics. So they have both offline and online, so I take care of the online part of it. And prior to that, I work with companies like,
Amazon, American Express.
So yeah, so that's… that's a bit about myself, and then, looking forward to speaking to you guys.
If there's nothing else, then I can get started. So yeah, so…
Just to give you a little bit of a background, and the context of this particular session, when…
What I'm understanding is, like, the group has been going through some of the…
Technical sessions, especially on some of the fundamentals,
Around data, vector storage, some of the embeddings, right?
And while we were discussing, one of the things that I felt that would be most relevant for this particular group is, like, some of the problems that we are looking to solve, in my company. So, like I said,
We are, like, an e-com… we are an e-commerce company, but we also have offline presence, so with e-commerce companies, so we, compete with companies like Amazon, Walmart.
In the e-commerce space.
And one of the things that is most important.
for us is how, searches are very effective, right? So…
as a consumer, as a customer, all of you folks, would be going on to searching for products that you need on a day-in and day-out basis. That's one of the most important, means of, identifying a product.
On any kind of an e-commerce platform.
Just to give you a perspective, more than 50% of, our e-commerce revenue generated, comes via
sessions, which are search originated, right? So, and that is case for most of the other e-commerce companies, like even in Amazon, where I've worked in the past.
So, so… So yeah, so with that background, right, so…
And the fact that this group has worked a little bit other meetings and all, we felt one of the things that might be relevant is, like, how…
Having embeddings also, and the right embeddings also kind of impact, like, what is, how effective is your search.
Word of caution, right, it was not, like, an end-to-end search. This is not a search masterclass. Search masterclass will be way longer, lot more elements, lot more complex.
It's about the fact that how do we kind of use embeddings to kind of make search efficient, which is something that is still very important. So…
During the course of the next, 60-odd minutes, we'll try to keep some time for questions as well.
We wanna… at least I want to cover on a few things. One is also giving you
Context of the business aspect of it, so… it is…
this session will be technical, but it will not be, like, 100% technical, because that's not the goal. You can go back to your professors, you have a lot of resources, you can go as technical as possible, but my goal is to kind of also to relate it to some of the things that we are seeing, in our day-to-day, e-commerce business, and how, how we can kind of
Relate our technical aspect to the business part.
I do have, a workbook, which is a collab workbook. Hopefully we should get some time, we'll quickly look into it, like, some of the examples of implementing, those embeddings and how search works, etc.
It's, again, it's a basic form of search, I would say. Like I said, search in itself is a lot more complex, it has a lot more elements.
But yeah, it will still give you folks some sort of understanding of
Why it is important, and
how does it work, in principle? So that's the whole idea.
with that background, I can get started. I can start sharing my screen. We'll start with some slides to begin with, and then we'll move on to the workbook. So yeah.
Let me share my screen.
Okay.
Assuming it's visible, alright,
So yeah, so, like I said, the idea is, like, how…
How embeddings has become one of the most important concepts, to ensure that we have
you could call embeddings, you could call a Wix to store, Victor store, whatever name you want to call. One other important factors for having an efficient
search.
And the problem, to be honest, is, right, so if you think about any kind of an e-commerce company similar to ours, we have, like, millions of, SKUs, across various categories, right? And historically, what would happen is, like,
there used to be architectures where a lot of, the text matching used to be done, right? And that has become, very, very difficult to kind of catch up on.
And as we go through the next few slides, you'll understand why is that the case, so that you are able to kind of appreciate, to a certain extent, on, what's the problem. Like I said, there are millions of daily searches.
I don't remember, like, all of my journeys start from searchlight. Amazon, like, in your Indian context, Amazon Blinket,
anything you call, Zomato, everything, right? So, I start from search. So, search becomes, like, a very, very core, important aspect, of any e-commerce business. One of the things that…
And with that mindset, right, so when I'm going through a search, if you think about it, like, I know what's my intent.
Right? So, it's not… yeah, there might be times when I'm doing exploratory, but 90-95% of the times, I know my intent. I know that, okay, I need to buy this thing, or I need to buy this product, and for this use. So that's why, what is more important is, like, understanding the customer intent, customer context is most important.
And then, like, I told you guys that, for any e-commerce company, the revenue contribution for any other source systems would be greater than 50%, so having this done right is one of the most important aspects as well.
One of the things that we've realized, now is, like, the…
the way customers are searching is very different, right? Maybe it is more recent as well, but then, apart from the fact, like, if you think about removing the searches, like, iPhone, iPads, which are real bonita searches, those work, like…
People search for products, and they search for the usage, right? Most of us do that,
I need some shoes for jogging. I know what is the intent, right? I just don't buy for shoes, right?
I need phones, but then I also have, like, a budget in mind. Yes, you can use a filter, but is that the right way to kind of do that? And then so on and so forth, right? So, now, if you think about it,
if these queries, I'm assuming a lot of us are able to kind of relate to, like, yeah, these are the queries that a lot of us are using day in and day out, but interesting thing is, like, the way I'm…
doing shoes or saying shoes could be different than what someone else was doing, right? So we use, like, everyday language, right? I could… I am saying shoes for jogging, but someone could say I use shoes for run.
Right? Or for running, or for run, or I could say sninkers.
for running, right? So, with that mind, right? So, if you think about some of these queries, I cannot use shoes, jogging,
And match those keywords.
with the catalog that I have, right? Which is a million-plus catalog, millions and millions of catalog, right? And that is what is the context, that, in which I'm using, or what is the usage is more important versus, the keyword part of it.
And this is where, if you think about it, like, exact word matches, is, like.
And this, as a matter of fact, before we build… rebuild… we are rebuilding our search systems at Best Buy.
And prior to this, it was, believe it or not, it was keyword matches, right? So we are using exact keyword matches to kind of identify products, which is… if it does not work, you have to add a lot of…
filters, you have to add a lot of rules to kind of make it work, right? You have to identify a lot of synonyms, like, for instance, like I said, someone could say shoes, others could say, sneakers, one could say jogging, another one could say running, right? So…
If someone has to continue this, or something which contributes to so many of the revenue, that doesn't make sense for us to kind of do it in that way.
So…
With that context, I think, like I said, keyword search does not, make sense for us to kind of, work with. Sorry.
Just to know.
But… and to think about it, right, so someone says jogging shoes, they need… they basically need something suitable for running activity. That is what they need. That is the context, that is the intent.
Right? And but if you see from a product catalog.
So product catalog, has a lot of things, so it, for any product catalog, for any product, per se, you'll have a lot of features, right? So now, you could say it could be running sneakers, it could be sports footwear, it could be athletic trainers.
But come to think of it, some of it… none of it is actually matching to the user query, so now, you know.
In a prior world, if we were to kind of do keyword-based matching, it will not work.
And then, as a customer, if you are saying this, you're like.
are you serious? Like, you can't understand that? Is that what I'm asking for? And then you'll do some clicks, it clicks, you go on to something, and then you say, hey, that product is there. So you… you're understanding, right? So, if it could lead to such a bad customer experience, because as a customer myself.
Even I'm at a point wherein, a lot many times, I forget about the keyword matching. I… most of the times, I mistype products, right? If I… if I'm looking for, milk, or if I'm looking for something else, and if I'm typing M-I-K-L, I expect my…
to kind of understand, hey, I'm looking for milk. So… so you're getting my point, right? So, this is how the customer expectations is. They… they… they just don't want those autocorrects.
We are way beyond that. We want, like, okay, here, I just want you to know my intent. And then there are a few more layers to it as well, which we'll talk about in a few slides. Now the customers are, you should know what is my preferred brand, you should know what I've searched in the past, and so on and so forth. So there's… there are more complications to those search results as well.
So yeah, so, yeah, like, I promise you guys, I want to kind of… while we're talking about some of the technical things, I want to root you also on the business side of it, which is one of the most important things for any technical project. So, if you… if you think about from a…
metric standpoint, session abandonment is one of a very important, metrics that we, track for, right? Or my active cut rates, or my conversion rates, those are some of the things that we, continue to track for.
Like, for instance, I'm giving you, like, a real-life example.
When we were changing from one source system to another, or an enhanced source system.
the discussions with the business teams is not about, like, which model you've created, not about, like, what is your architecture. It is clearly about, guys, what is the conversion rate? What is my conversion rate in previous system, and what is my conversion rate in new system? So it's as simple as that.
We can't talk about relevance, we can't talk about recall, and all of those, metrics, so… so yeah, so it becomes pretty critical.
If you don't have, like, a good search system, all of these metrics go for a toss.
So yeah, so with that background, the, the,
What the new paradigm is, like, instead of kind of doing exact word mashing, you want to know, like, what is the intent?
And that is what, if you think about it, some of the ChatGPTs of the world do beautifully, right? They don't have a catalog, they don't have those challenges of a catalog.
But they have a, they… one of the things that is most important is, like, what is the context, right? So, which is where a lot of the aspects of context engineering, and again, it needs, like, a few more different sessions around that.
Around it, right? So…
So, beyond syntax, we don't want to do the syntactical search, we want to do… which word is called the semantic search.
So moving from a synthetic search to a semantic search. And then one of the key attributes of that is the embeddings, which forms a foundation of it.
So…
I'm just assuming that most of you are aware about it, this is my understanding of some of the, courses you've gone through, but then still, just a reminder that, everything about it, it converts text to numbers, so…
It's… and it does into, like, arrays, it's a multi-dimensional, each embedding model that you use, it will kind of, in fact, tell you, like, okay, how many dimensions into it. It coders, there is an encoding that happens, and then, there is a…
retrieval part of it as well, so basically as a coding, it will kind of retrieve and say, okay, which is the most similar, to this vector or not. With that.
embedding. One of the advantages that we have, if you see over here in the screen, play…
shoes become pretty equivalent to a footwear, and we'll talk a little bit about, like, how. And then dress, someone could say dress, someone could say gown, right? So in my embedding space, or in my vector space, even if someone says gown for wedding, they will have, like, a…
They'll be able to similarly found dress for wedding.
And similarly for cars and so forth. And then, concepts also, like running could be similar to jogging could be, and then formal and business professional, right? Which is the advantage. Now, I… what I don't…
and keywords, otherwise I will have to say, hey, by the way, formal is synonym to business is synonym to professional, and then come to think about it, if new words come in and I continue to kind of work, there's so much manual work to kind of add synonyms and synonyms to it, to kind of make sure that that keyword matching works.
So yeah, so I think that's, the advantage and a high-level concept.
I see, Santos, you have your hand, Chris.

Santosh Rasputra
00:30:54
Hi, Vishal, sorry to bother you, I just logged in because I didn't receive the link for the session. I was just wondering what's the agenda for the session today, I mean, what's going to be covered? I'm sorry if this is covered already.

Vishal Nagpal
00:31:05
Yeah, it's been covered, I shared about the background, so basically, we… I take care of, AI systems, at Best Buy, and, one of the things that is… one of the most important things for us is to kind of solve for
Search, and then we are looking at application of embeddings to enable that search.

Santosh Rasputra
00:31:28
Thank you.

Vishal Nagpal
00:31:31
Record?

Venkat Venkatachalam
00:31:33
Yeah, hi, Vishal. So, so what I was, getting from the session so far is, for a keyword search, you are still,
are relying on simple, rules, highly deterministic rules. For instance, if
a text or a piece of string refers to a shoe or, something that the e-commerce user shops. It doesn't leverage any of the probabilistic, algorithms.
And, that is one of the key limitations, because we don't have the data, in any of the vector spaces, so it doesn't reveal the surrounding context or the, semantics of
that specific keyword. I guess that's where you're going towards, is that correct?

Vishal Nagpal
00:32:35
Partially yes, and the reason why I say partially yes is, like, you're right, like, the keyword matching has those limitations to not help us with the semantic space. The… the limitation is… so they… the good thing is, like,
A lot of the…
architecture of the models that we've used on the keyword, like, about what to work and all, they've… they've also have some sort of a vector space. The disadvantage is… is, with the models that we use. The models are not…
Pre-trained or fine-tuned,
to that matter, in that vector space, which will say, hey, by the way, shoes is actually similar to footwear. Dress is similar to gown, right? So the… at least we've got to a point wherein that cosine similarity or the similarity concept is certainly similar.
Even in the keyword matching, but the limitation is the fact that I need those shoes
Because that is how I've encoded my data.
Right? I don't have,
a multi-dimensional, space, where I also know that shoes is also equivalent to footwear.
Right? So, so that's, that's where,
To be honest, I think if you…
if I think about an embedding model, it's like a SLM, it's a small language model. So… so that's how it is.

Venkat Venkatachalam
00:34:08
Okay, thank you.

Vishal Nagpal
00:34:11
Okay.
All right. So yeah, I've talked about it, why is it important, be talking about a semantic search,
for people who are interested in it, there is so much, so much literature on semantic search, like, I know people who kind of…
spend their entire lifetime, just on search. There is one special, person, Daniel Tuckerberg, who only writes about search, his searches his,
core expertise. So yeah, and then, in some ways, it also helps us in recommendations, like I said, like, if you go to the next level, like, okay, if I'm searching for something like phones or shoes, and if you know that, okay, these are my preference, or this is what I like, so we could also do personalization around it.
From a foundation standpoint, obviously you need the text, you need the queries, you need the product catalog, you need both of them.
Then, using that, you can embed them into, like, a vector space, which is where you try to identify the similarity between the products and the search, and then, there is an aspect of ranking and filtering, so…
Yeah,
So, like I said, just to repeat, and a reinforcement, when we talk about an embedding space, the embedding space has to be, both
for your product catalog, so, like, the million of SKUs that you see on the e-commerce website, and then, similarly, you also need for the query space, right? So, more from a search perspective.
And some of the models, like, Modern Systems uses is not just BERT, I know it says BERT sentence BERT, but there are a lot more, which have come in on that.
We'll talk a little bit about that as well.
Let me see if there's anything that has not been covered.
Yeah, so it's, basically the, just a reminder of the fact that it is, intent-based matching, what the customer intend to do, it is independent of vocabulary semantic search, because, like I said,
how I'm saying could be very different than how someone else, maybe Venkati, are saying, or what other words are you using, right? And then the one, which is the third most important, and the most important thing, which is the natural synonym handling, which is…
The most important challenge that we have in a keyword-based search, right?
And I'm telling you, like, an actual business scenario where I'm…
in a keyword-based matching, I know teams, what they do is, like, they'll go through the search queries, they'll identify, hey, these are the search queries where the conversion rate is low, or these are the search queries which are not leading to any results. Okay, let me identify what were the search terms. Oh, by the way,
someone… I said dress, but then someone else was searching for a gown.
Why didn't we have a gown? Can we add gown as a synonym? And then so on and so forth, right? So, all of that…
work, is highly, highly minimized. I'm not saying it is entirely removed, but it is, to a very, very large extent, minimized in a semantic search.
So yeah, so just keep that in mind. This will be pretty important.
So yeah, like I said, from a technical aspect, you need your inputs of product data, you need embedding model.
You need a vector storage, so that… so the decisions have to be taken, on your 2, 3,
And size to it, particularly, and…
The tool is the embedding model. What kind of an embedding model do I need to take care of? So there are various
And I'll quickly show you guys, like, kind of a leaderboard as well on an embedding model. So there are various parameters in which you can kind of search for an embedding model, and then how do you identify the right embedding model which works best for you is something, and then…
Vector storage is fine, like, whatever typically you use, your cloud database, you use that. And then, obviously, similarity matching, mostly it's cosine similarity that, most of these, models use. And then, on the decision logic is, which again.
What is interesting is, like, no matter how many things that we want to do from a technical standpoint, there are certain business tools which still have to be kind of applied, to kind of make sure that we have the meaningful search results.
So when you think about, from a product catalog, right, if you… if any of you have, I'm assuming, used Amazon, Flipkart, or some of these websites, right? Everything that you see on a product detail.
actually goes into that, embedding model, right? So, right, from your product title, your description, what is the specifications, right? For instance, if you think from a laptop perspective, what is the brand, what is the usage,
And remember how we kind of click on the description, we look at, okay, what are the features?
What is a chip? What is a processor, all of that goes into…
The product representation, and that is something which is most important, so… So…
Which is where, a lot many times, as a scientist, we would want to kind of jump into, hey, let's build the model, let's build a search system.
But not many times, we've seen that the things that hit us the hard is challenges in our product data catalog.
Because the way they've kind of set up, the data catalog.
Does not, is not correct in the first place, unfortunately.
Giving you a slight example, for instance, like, basic things, like, right,
We… there were certain search terms that we were looking, hey, why are the customer conversion rate not happening over there? And we decided, okay, the customer conversion rate is not happening, because some of these core search queries are not working fine, because we are not able to give the right relevant products. And we say, okay, let's look back, like.
What are we searching for? And then we realized, hey, by the way, we realized that
the way these products were kind of set up, the product category was set up in the wrong way, right? So basically, the category manager who was kind of uploading the data.
did not do it in the right way. So, it becomes that fundamental, to be honest. So, what is important is, like.
don't assume, anyone who's worked on a search system, don't assume that your product is good. As a matter of fact, we've now built systems to kind of
look at the data quality of a product catalog. We have certain checks and balances where we kind of check and go back to share with the business teams, hey, by the way, this is not working for you. This is something that you need to fix and all of that. So, so that is something which is pretty important and fundamental.
Once you've kind of made sure that you have the right product, you have the right data catalog, right catalog, obviously you do the data prep, put them into,
batch processing, mostly, there is no specific need for a real-time processing for this, because, for instance, if you are, loading, like, say, thousands of SQUs, you can always decide a time that, okay, now if my new SQs are coming, and I'll put them into my vector space, and then you… and then, obviously, there will be indexing of that storage that will happen, which will be taken care of by your vector DB.
And obviously the result will be, like, a semantic product space. What is funny is, like, it is so complex that it is…
it is not even easy to kind of visualize. So, in a couple of slides, we'll see it, but then, it is not even possible, right? So, for instance, a product about…
Running shoes will be very close to, something like a jogging sneakers, athletic footwear, and so on and so forth.
But yeah, the first time around, this is a very highly compute-heavy process, but then, subsequent batches, becomes a lot more easier.
And like I said,
Every product team or every team needs to kind of make sure that they have
Checks and balances to kind of check, okay, whether my product categories are right, whether the descriptions are right, there is no incorrect descriptions, and so on and so forth, to kind of make sure that we have the right vector space.
So this is how, at a conceptual level, a very simple concept level, a vector space will look like. So you'll… let's assume that what you see over here is…
there is, similar products which are there in a cluster, and dissimilar products are far away. So, for instance, something related to, like, computing and electronics are…
Somewhere, it's not a very accurate representation, or close to each other.
Like, mobile devices and computing.
But something like, formal wear is… will be a very different vector space than a home furnishing. The reason why it is, it is a combination of, like, what embedding model that we use, and the fact that these are so…
different products in itself, like, by… even if you were to kind of encode it, the terms and the descriptions are so different that they eventually will be
very far away from each other, even from a basic concept standpoint, right? But, if you think about from a mobile or a computing perspective, there will be sort of a lot of the terms, technologies, even brands, which will be very similar.
Rangs could be there, for instance. Apple could be there, which would be there both in laptops, notebooks, iPads, and even in phones, right? So… so they will be closer, the vector space will be closer to which. So that's how…
you can visualize, but there is no easier way, easier way to kind of, visualize it.
what becomes interesting is, like, in this particular space, you, that is how, why is it important? Like, tomorrow, if you have to say that, okay, I…
I need to kind of show a little bit more products, to my customers, which are related, and that's how you kind of think about your firm vector space, like, okay, this is closer to my vector space, I can… if someone is searching for, Apple products, I can show them both mobile devices and computing.
Obviously, you should not show someone
Like a footwear or those kind of products.
I'll just come back to you, Venkarit.
After this, so this is how…
It's a multi-dimensional space, from a… from a vector perspective.
It could be, like, this is a 2D projection, an example of a 768-dimensional embedding space. Why is it 768? Because those are the kind of features that we have.
And if you see over here, your Bluetooth speakers.
electronics, so this is the zone in the green you see is the electronics, and you see I have laptops, smartphone, laptops,
Picos over there, and then you have shoes, and then you have something around.
running and fitness, and then somewhere your fitness tracker is also kind of closer to it. So that's how your embedding space will look like. No longer we can look at worst, not even, like, three dimensions to forget it, so…
So yeah, that's how… it's the best way in which it can be shown.
This way, good.

Venkat Venkatachalam
00:46:56
Yeah, thanks, Vishal. So, that picture was pretty representative, and I had a very good visual. Party answered my question, but what I was trying to ask was, is, the similarity,
the cosine similarity technique or measurement. Is that the only, way that we can measure the proximity of the vectors?
In the vector space, or… Do we resort to, other techniques?

Vishal Nagpal
00:47:27
There are multiple ways. There are multiple ways, so…

Venkat Venkatachalam
00:47:30
Like, clustering, maybe.

Vishal Nagpal
00:47:32
Yeah, so the thing is, like,
The clustering and all can help you, in identifying the product categories, but if you think about it from a…
when you go… and that's where I've been in this DAR session, I've been pushing you guys, think from a business perspective, think from a customer perspective, right? All of you guys are customers now. You would prefer to have
products.
which are very close to your intent. So, that can happen. Clustering, don't get me wrong, is… is very good, and can work, but then it will not give you the kind of results that your consumers would want. So… so yeah, there are even…
So if you think about it, right, so it is, it is distance matching.
Right, so someone who has… who is aware about the concepts of distance matching. There are various algorithms, there are various processes of distance matching, so…
All of those can be used. So this is, like, a multi-dimensional distance matching,
In summary, what we're trying to kind of optimize for.
Versus, if you think about it from a two-dimensional perspective,
It is very simple to say, hey, I do X1 minus X2,
let's assume it's, like, an X and Y axis, X1 minus X2, plus Y1 minus Y2, and a square of X1 minus X2 squared, and a Y1 minus Y2 squared, and then I kind of optimize for that, right? So, just so simple, right? And then, I could also say I'll do
a mod of, or, a fixed 1 minus X2 plus Y1 minus Y2, that could be another way, right? Or I could say, you know, I could do…
the percentage difference of X1 minus X2 upon X1 versus Y1 minus 32 upon Y1, and then I do a sum of it. So you're getting my point right. So, what I'm trying to say is, like, think it from a distance matching perspective.
And yes, there can… there are multiple ways in which this can be done.

Venkat Venkatachalam
00:49:46
Okay, thank you.

Vishal Nagpal
00:49:52
Shane Hao?

SRIDHAR LELLAPALLI
00:49:54
Yeah, hi, I'm sorry, I just, based on this example on this diagram, the visualizing dimension.
How can we describe, just taking an example of, how it is mapped, like, running, the way it is positioned, and to the running shoes, and to the formal shoes?
How is it structured there? Okay. With a simple…

Vishal Nagpal
00:50:18
Yes, sir, yeah, yeah, let me, yeah, let me…
I was just setting my system again, so… let me check it again.
That's okay.

SRIDHAR LELLAPALLI
00:50:33
Because whenever.

Vishal Nagpal
00:50:34
Sorry, I'm scared.

SRIDHAR LELLAPALLI
00:50:34
You have running shoes, you have formal shoes. So when you're typing in running, you won't think about formal shoes, because formal shoes are used in office environments, or formal environments.

Vishal Nagpal
00:50:47
Yeah.
Let me know if it is, visible again.

SRIDHAR LELLAPALLI
00:50:58
Yeah, yes.

Vishal Nagpal
00:50:59
Okay.
Okay.
Okay
So if you think about it, sorry, your question was, like, what my running shoes and formal shoes, how are they related?

SRIDHAR LELLAPALLI
00:51:11
How about the position in this diagram, starting from running, where it's highlighted at the center part of the screen?

Vishal Nagpal
00:51:20
Oh, okay, yeah. So, so… And that's where I'll go back to the concepts of, like,
Look at your product catalogue.
Right? Your product catalog, or a product details. Product details will have details about, like, what is my product?
And if you go into Amazon product detail, if you remember, if you remember, like, there is a product, what is my product doing, what is the description, what it is best used for, what is the specifications, and so on and so forth. Now, if you think from a shoe's perspective, the company or the manufacturer will always say, hey, these are best suited for running.

SRIDHAR LELLAPALLI
00:52:00
Hmm.

Vishal Nagpal
00:52:00
And it helps you, stay fit and something of that sort, right?

SRIDHAR LELLAPALLI
00:52:05
It's an attribute of the product?
Yeah, store.

Vishal Nagpal
00:52:10
are attributes on the product, you're absolutely right, yes.
As an attributor of a product, right? So now, my running shoes has an attribute where there is an element of fitness.
And my formal shoes has an element of shoe in itself, wherein, in a formal shoe, I'll have an attribute where I'll be talking about the sole, I'll be talking about…
Softness, and aesthetics, and the sole part of it, right? Or let's assume that there's sort of… which will be very similar to my running shoes as well, right? So that is where, if you see over here.
my running shoes and formal shoes are closer to each other, but then if I go into that tangent on running shoes, there is… there is an angle of fitness over here, right? So there is running shoes, there is fitness now.
I'm getting to a concept of fitness tracker, and fitness tracker will be, hey, by the way, this is what you can use for running, it has electronics, and so on and so forth, and as it goes on… if you go to lower it in this spectrum, I'm going closer to my electronics.
if you think I have laptop, I have smartphones, right? So, it's a very n-dimensional space. So, when I'm talking about my sport watches, I'm talking about my brands, I'll be talking about Apple, I'll be talking about…
what is the battery life, and so on and so forth. The moment I'm talking about that from fitness to sport watches, I'm moving closer to a product feature, but I'm talking about laptops and smartphones, which also have the same products, which has, like, a brand of Apple, I have a battery usage, and so on and so forth. So think from that latent space perspective, like, what are the features, and then you start to visualize that, okay, in that latent space, in that multi-dimensional space.
These products would be closer to each other, and how they could be
Now, think about it, and which is where I had an example in the previous, I think a couple of slides back, like a home furnishing. Now, in a home furnishing, mostly my,
I don't know, like, what are the brands that I would say, maybe let's IKE as a brand, and then say, okay, I'm talking about wood, I'm talking about, durability, I'm talking about,
shine and whatever, that stuff, right? Which is nowhere closer to these, so in that n-dimensional space, they will continue to be a little bit farther than what you see over here.

SRIDHAR LELLAPALLI
00:54:21
Okay.
So the query vector direction is going in the refined way, right? As it is being refined, the search for the product.

Vishal Nagpal
00:54:31
Yes, yes.

SRIDHAR LELLAPALLI
00:54:32
Interestingly, yeah. Okay.

Vishal Nagpal
00:54:34
Yeah, so… so yes, so…
So one is… so the way you need to think about it is, like, there are two parts to this problem, or to this puzzle. One part is my product space.
Right?
Now, my product space is made of my product features, product description, tool. Now, we are getting to a point where we also have reviews.
Right, so my reviews are also part of it. so…
Now, once I have that space, now I have a query, which is where, once we get time, we'll get into some of those, examples as well.
Perfect, so now the query will tell you that you… in that space, which is my closest, so that the arrow that you see, or the one that you see, don't get fooled by the fact that that is the most accurate ones, it is saying, okay, it will give me the direction that, okay, in this query.
this is what you… is closest to the search… what you search for, versus in my product space. So… and that is what I'll get back. So I'll get back those products.
To Venkat told your point, either I could get those product clusters, or I could get multiple products, or I could get, one or two products, whichever is closest, depending upon what my algorithm is designed now.

SRIDHAR LELLAPALLI
00:55:52
But it's in the direction of your product catalog, but is it… what is really in the mind of the person who's querying it? Is it going in the direction?
Opening. Yes.

Vishal Nagpal
00:56:03
It should, it should. Hopefully, yes, you're right.

SRIDHAR LELLAPALLI
00:56:05
Complete.

Vishal Nagpal
00:56:06
Sure.

SRIDHAR LELLAPALLI
00:56:07
Okay, and sorry, one more question about the dimensionality. You are saying 768 dimensions.
So the way it is organized, this diagram, this vector diagram. But is it dynamically being changed? Are the dimensions going to be added based on a feedback loop? The kind of thing that you're saying about a review coming in? So that can be varying, right? Or the…

Vishal Nagpal
00:56:29
country.

SRIDHAR LELLAPALLI
00:56:29
Most of the lifetime of the product, yeah.

Vishal Nagpal
00:56:32
Yes, which is… which is what we've realized as an e-commerce company. We've realized that reviews is something that has become a pretty important aspect and a feature, right? So now, excluding that.
This is not a good thing, because we want that information, because some of it… Think about it, like, if I, if I say that, I need a student laptop, right?
Now, a student laptop.
If I know, you will think about from a fact that, okay, yeah, it should be, it should be good, it should not be that expensive, and so on and so forth, but someone else has a…
point that, okay, by the way, my kid is using it, my 12-year-old is using it, or my 14-year-old is using it, he's using it in a backpack, and it's not heavy. So, think about it, that is there in my reviews.
And then I want to search for the fact that, okay, if someone has actually searched for a lightweight student laptop, I can still get it, because that information is sitting in my reviews.
So, to get that, right? So, as you add on to a lot of those features, and aspects of products, yes, your n-dimensional space continues to kind of increase.

SRIDHAR LELLAPALLI
00:57:48
The same query is getting different results, because you're dynamically changing the aspects of it.

Vishal Nagpal
00:57:56
You are right.

SRIDHAR LELLAPALLI
00:57:56
Is it flip side. Yeah. Yeah.

Vishal Nagpal
00:57:58
So there is a lot of.

SRIDHAR LELLAPALLI
00:57:59
put it in.

Vishal Nagpal
00:58:00
So that… so what happens is, like, whenever you deploy a new model, whenever you deploy a new system, there's a lot of testing that happens. So… so it makes sure that, okay, we search for… yeah, so the queries are coming out, right? So you're right, that… that is a very important part of the system.

SRIDHAR LELLAPALLI
00:58:15
Yeah, yeah, thank you, thank you very much.

Vishal Nagpal
00:58:18
I'm good.

Ankit Tiwari
00:58:20
Yes, sir. Actually, what you have, told earlier, it was very quite precise, and, I would like to add on one thing, that if we search, there is… there are three words, like, mainly, for example, and among the two words are same. If we replace one word in front, back, and forth.
which I listed earlier.

Vishal Nagpal
00:58:42
It doesn't matter. It will not matter.

Ankit Tiwari
00:58:45
Actually, it… actually, it does, actually, sir. Sorry, sorry to interrupted.

Vishal Nagpal
00:58:48
I'll tell you why, I'll tell you why. I'll tell you why it matters. In a embedding space, it will not matter. It matters in a search system.
And in the search system, what happens is, and which is where I… and when I started, this session, I said that this is not a… we're talking a lot about search, but it is not about a search algorithm, it's not about search architecture. In a search architecture, there are models which
We have, which says, okay, what is the intent, and what is…
we identify the intent of the customer, and there is a model on name and entity recognition, which will say, alright, okay, I will convert this query
2… My vector search to search it.
Because of the biases and the complications in that intense resolution, name-entity, resolution model, is why this sequencer… you're absolutely correct.
And it does matter, but it matters because of the fact of that model and that architecture itself. But if you talk about from an embedding space perspective.

Ankit Tiwari
00:59:55
Totally addictive.
Alright.

Vishal Nagpal
01:00:04
Alright, so yeah, so we've… we've talked about, like, how…
the product spaces, which is what we were just talking about, based on the question, Sridhar, you had.
And then, once you have the product space, then it becomes, like, the query space, right? So, so there is a lot of work, Ankit, which we are not delving into. Like, there is… what is the query…
intent, and how do we kind of translate that query intent to something that we want to kind of search in an embedding space? But then the simple space, the simple ways is, like, okay, we use the same model, we just embed the same, embedding model, we just search it in the same vector space. So that's, like, a simple process to kind of do it, and then once we kind of, identify
my query, I just search it into my product space. One of the key points to note is, like, which always holds true, like, your query embedding and your product embedding has to be the same model.
So, a simple layman example would be you can't compare, like, you can compare, but then, you can't compare, like, a centimeter to a liter, right? Because, they are very different measures. So, so in that sense, you have query and your product.
Has to be, into the same embedding space.
Yeah, so like I said, there are… there are ways in which, you can use the…
There are various embedding models that you have that you can search for. One of the earlier, like, if we were talking about, like, maybe 5, 6 years back, word embeddings, like, one of the more popular ones for, like, Word2Vec.
It…
focuses a lot… it is… it's very low compute. It has… it had its own advantages. It was used a lot on, some of the text analytics work. It is still… it's still being used in a very large space, but then it is not good on… it is used mainly for, like, keyword matching, right?
And then, the BERT model from Google has been, where we're embedding sentences.
Is, obviously high on search accuracy. It uses natural queries, like we've… the examples we've been talking about, and the compute cost is medium.
What… you could still go ahead and do it, like, which is what I told you folks a little while back, think about it, our embedding model is also an SLM, like a small language model, why a small language model? I don't think that… it may be, at least not to my knowledge, like, you'll not have, like, embedding models which are, like.
100 billions of tokens and all of that, but then…
what you can do is, like, you can continue to fine-tune your, your embedding model to your use case, right? Let's assume that…
tomorrow, you are not an e-commerce company, but you are, let's assume, a decathlon, and which is a lot into fitness, a lot into things like that, but you would say that, okay, I want to… for me, even the difference between
like, a hike and a walk is very material enough, right? So how do I kind of fine-tune my model to kind of make sure that they are
there is still a difference, because I know my customers, they know if they're asking for a hiking shoes, it's very different than if they're asking for maybe, like, a walking shoe, so on and so on. So you could actually fine-tune your inventing models so that your vector spaces,
more distinct.
Okay,
So yeah, so some of the concepts which are, again, important, in the semantic, similarity matching,
is, the comparison of vectors, like I was talking to you about, like, an example of, like,
a two-dimensional space, like X1, X2, Y1, Y2, but think about it in a 768-dimensional or n-dimensional space, like, what is our vector comparison will be. So, basically, that each of them will be have, like, an embedding score. So, for instance, if your product has an embedding score of that multi-dimensional of X1, X2, Y1, Y2, Z1, Z2, so on and so forth, your query will have a multi-dimensional in space of X1, Y2, Y2, and so on.
And so forth.
And then you do a similarity match, and then you say, okay, what is my, top K? So top K is,
It's a… it's an industry-wide term, which says, okay, what are my top end products, that are matching my query? And then, I think,
I'm getting, I guess, Bank at you or someone had a question on, like, are there different ways in which we can do similarity? Yes, like, you see over here, cosine similarities, one dot product could be another, like you say, X1, X2, Y1, Y2, Z1, Z2, A1, A2, B1, B2, and so on and so forth, and then you do dot product, and one Euclidean distance could be another. So.
It's… it's basically comparing across your n-dimensional space, so…
What we've seen is cosine similarity works a lot, lot better, but then, you could always try out other ways as well, and then figure out if that is working better for you or not.
Okay, yeah, so again, this one is important. It goes back to some of the, business part of it.
Because… and this is where we root ourselves, or we, into the reality. The reality is, like.
we created a very nice embedding model vector space. We said, okay, hey, by the way, everything should work, because we have, all the queries, it should match. Why? It's not matching, right? So, the… there is… and that is where, I'll go back to
A concept of… Such… algorithm, a search architecture, and a search architecture.
there is also a concept of ranking, so there is… a re-ranker, is… is something which is… so there is a retrieval part of it, I retrieve the products, and then there is a part… I retrieve the products from a vector database, and then say, okay, I'll rank the products, because
say Ankerat is searching for something, then he'll see 10 products, but then maybe Sridhar is searching for something, he'll see different 10 products for the same query, right? Or for a similar query. And that is decided by a ranker algorithm.
And that ranking can be done by various ways, like your product popularity, your conversion rates, you said that, okay, I…
I am searching for these,
5 products, but then, guess what? I'm not getting high margins on Apple product, but then I'm getting high margins on OPPO. So the person is asking for a smartphone. Why should I show an Apple product? I can show an OPPO phone, because I'm getting high margin as an e-commerce company, so I will rank that higher. Doesn't mean that OPPO is closer to
to the search that I did, right? So, just bear that in mind. One…
Small nuance, but a funny thing, like, there's so many times we've seen, as a customer, and even as, in our companies, where we've kind of missed it, we've searched for something, and then, hey, by the way, we're showing out-of-stock products, like, as a customer, it's such a bad experience.
So… so yeah, so there could be other restrictions, other filtering that you can do on it, which is… come to think of it, it is not ranking. So you do your ranking, but then after that, you do your filtering and say, okay, I've ranked these, 50 products.
But then I'll do filtering, I'll remove out of stock, I'll remove something where they say, hey, by the way, there is a derogatory India flag over there, I don't want to kind of show it, and so on and so forth.
And then you can have, like, confidence thresholds on what are the most similar products you want to do. And then, like I said, which becomes a lot more complex, is the fourth element, which is the personalization.
I know how Ankit is searching. Ankit likes, maybe, Apple products more, and then I show him more Apple products, but then…
I like, Rashad likes Samsung products more, and then we'll show him, Samsung products. So, that's sort of a thing, like, we can also go in for personalization. We can also go in for, like, what we have searched in the past, so we can go out for some of the products that we've ordered in the past, and so on and so forth, right? So, those…
The moment you add all of those things, the complexity goes on increasing, and the variability goes on increasing, and that's why, search is very, very hard to kind of crack.
So yeah, that's sad.
I know there are a few hands up, I'll cover these few slides, and then we'll take some questions.
Now, the search decisions, obviously, it's the same, right? So, you… your search decisions has to be, based on the fact that how you're… how popular you want to have, although if there is a penny boosting, you need to offer popular products, if you want to do…
Some of the inventory-related stuff, and then,
some of the categories, right? So, for instance, if you know that, okay, hey, by the way, someone is searching very generically about electronics, then,
what do I search for? Like, and that is where there is one concept, if anyone is more interested in knowing about it, there's a… there is a literature on ambiguous queries, right? Like, if I think about it from a perspective, like, I'm a Walmart.
Right? Walmarts… Is a… is a company which… sells both…
groceries, and it also sells electronics. Now, on Walmart, I search for Apple. What do I share?
Do I share an apple, electronic, or do I share, like, an apple veg… a fruit?
Right? So… so yeah, so I think there is… there is a whole, spectrum of world of literature on ambiguous queries, so…
someone who's interested, go on, search for that. So, yeah, so that is where we, as an organization, will take those calls, like, whether it needs… they need to be done based on personalization, whether they need to be done on popularity, whether they need to be done on margins, or so on and so forth, right? And then, and then your freshness and all.
Is also an aspect, like, the categories, someone would say, I've just launched a new Xbox, that is something that I want to promote more, versus a Nintendo Switch, and so on and so forth.
So, so yeah.
Yeah, so…
this is the last bit, driving home the point on business. If we do this, obviously, the most important fact that is most important to the business is conversion. So yeah, so I think if you do it right, conversion definitely is the most important aspect, and then
There are other metrics, obviously, the engineering and the discovery improvement, and the customer experience, so…
So yeah, I will take a pause over here.
To take a few questions. I see a few hands raised. I'll go in the sequence. Rajra?

Rajaram Ramamoorthi
01:11:33
Yeah, thanks, Michelle. So, two questions from my side. One is, you talked about a couple of metrics that we could potentially use. One is cosine distance, another one is Eubreyan.
In your experience, do we use, only these two, or do you also bring in other, distance formulae from your Manhattan and those kind of things as well, right? So that's something that I want to check with you, that's one. The second is,
nice to understand the need for contextual ranking, but is there any human feedback element that is also being pulled in at a certain point to kind of bias certain keywords in a certain area and then enrich the whole ranking process, right? These are the two questions I have.

Vishal Nagpal
01:12:13
Yeah.
Yeah. On your first questions, in my experience, mostly cosine is the one which is, which works the best, so that's what we're using, but, I'm sure there is research that's happening on more.
Manhattan is used more for some of the easier use cases, but then, yeah, that is also something that, folks have used, but then for something like a product catalog, which is so complex and so multidimensional, that works out better.
To your other question on, the feedback loop, that is…
What's funny is, like, that is the most important aspect.
Technology, unfortunately, is easier to implement. Everyone, come to think about it, any e-commerce company, there are so many, even in the Indian setup, I'm assuming this is a group which is, mostly in the Indian setup, there are so many D2C companies, right, which have…
which are so specialists in the brands. Everyone has their website, right? Everyone, has the… in search bar, they have, like, a search algorithm. But, last night I was searching something for… for a lamp, my wife was asking for, and then I was like.
It's so weird, something that I… I found a product,
Google search, but then when I'm searching into that website, they're not able to kind of give me the same product that I know is there in the catalog.
So… so yeah, so the way, I can give you a glimpse of, like.
how it is done in general, it is… it is a very painful process, so search queries are typically kind of divided into, like, multiple,
categories, so there are, like, head queries, there are, like, torso queries, there are, like, tail queries. Again, anyone who's interested into it, they can do a lot more research on it. Our head queries are the ones which are, like, the most popular, which will go into millions, and, always be…
catering to, let's assume, like, to 60% to 70% of your traffic, then your torso queries would be the remaining big portion of 30 to 35%, and then your tail could be, like, remaining 5%. Now.
Most of the companies, in their initial stages, would focus more on your head queries, and which is where most of your revenue conversion rate is important. So we'll continue to kind of optimize that, and some of the metrics that we continue to use is, like, okay, how many
null results I'm giving, how many, conversion rates is going, how many products that I'm retrieving, and so on and so forth, and then basis that, you kind of continuously review on a basis that, hey, by the way, is any of my search queries or my head queries, are they kind of getting impacted in these metrics? If yes, then you go back to it, hey, by the way, why is it not getting impacted?
And then you go as a customer feedback to say… or… or… or when I say customer… sorry, when I mean customer feedback, I mean, like, more like a…
human feedback in a way that, okay, no, by the way, I don't have this description, or this product, has this wrong, incorrect description, that's why it's not coming right into my vector space, or my embedding space, and that's why I need to correct it.
So it's a constantly process, constant process, which continues to happen, so a human in the loop is a very, very important factor.
We've even tried,
LLM as a judge, but that also continues to have its limitations, which also needs to be kind of still powered by humans a lot, in a way. So, but yeah, there has to be constant monitoring that needs to happen.

Rajaram Ramamoorthi
01:15:51
And one follow-up to that, is the aspect of re-indexing your embedding space, right, every time? Is that something that happens based on, I mean, a set frequency, or is it like a trigger that happens and based on which you train? Because…
Most of your MLOps, if you see, there is a data drift, model drift kind of, you know, scenario where you trigger the entire retraining. So is that the same thing here, or is it something different?

Vishal Nagpal
01:16:14
It happens less and unless you decide to do that, okay, your vector storage is not working out fine, but then you do it more when, the re-indexing happens as a natural phenomenon the moment you add new categories, the moment you add new products, right? So that happens, but then the entire re-indexing of your entire catalog is a more painstaking process.
That only happens if you feel that things are really broken, or you need to move toward a different vector store instance.

Rajaram Ramamoorthi
01:16:45
I'm just joking. Thanks.

Vishal Nagpal
01:16:50
Yeah, Gruncheon?

Thiyagarajan Subramaniyan
01:16:51
Yeah, thanks. Nice, nice perspective, thanks, Vishal Desk. One, on the personal is that you… if I have to develop this as a platform, if,
you know, the different components that you have mentioned about different, you know, the architecture has different components, like, you know, for search, we… for, you know, for similarity, we have different cosign and all that, right? So, for personalization, is there any specific component
Or it is going to be a combination of multiple things, actually.

Vishal Nagpal
01:17:25
Yeah.
So, for personal… so when I say personalization, I meant personalization on top of search. So if that was your question, but if your question was separate to the fact that if I'm thinking of personalization as a module, like, does it also have a component, various components, like what search has?
So yes, recommendations in general has, has, has components as well, but… Those components are…
less complex from an architecture perspective, it is more complex from a data perspective, like, what is the data that you want to bring? So, to give you an example, for instance, one of the things that we've been trying to do from a…
From a personalization perspective is, like, it's not just about…
the traditional ways of looking at what am I searching for, what am I ordering for, and so on and so forth, but even the fact that what am I clicking on the website, that what is the sequence of clicks that I did, where did I click, and where did I go onto the website? Something of that source as well, right? So… so it becomes more complex.
from a data standpoint, like, what kind of data I want to do, and then, architecturally-wise, it is complex from a
real-time perspective, right? So, what do you want to kind of infer? When do you want to give it? When do you want to personalize in that? But the components-wise, I think, that-based search has more complexities, if that was the question, because what happens is, like, searches might be an outcome of, like, 3 to 4 things, and then
as an outcome, if your conversion rate is not right, you're worried that which is the component which is broken? And that is where you need to have, like.
Results at each step, and then figure out, like, why the whole thing is not working, and then which component needs to be fixed, and so on and so forth, yeah.

Thiyagarajan Subramaniyan
01:19:10
Yeah, so I was asked… thanks, anyway, that that explained, but I was thinking more from a knowledge management perspective, you have to develop something.
Then, in that case, the personalization may not be too much, because we are looking at a little bit of a deterministic
place.

Vishal Nagpal
01:19:27
You're, you're, you're right. It is, in that sense, it is a deterministic place.
Because you are mainly… so your feedback logo is basically on your, conversion rate, so that is… so that deterministic aspect is… is always there. So… so yes, that part is proof of recommendations.
Jugglinger, yes.

Jagabandhu Malik
01:19:55
Hey Visal, so I have two questions. It's on embeddings.
So, first one is, like, Do we have any optimal, you know, way of choosing dimensions?
Example, basically, we use 768 sometime, when I… Do conversion.
But I don't… I just want to actually understand a little bit more in depth.
like, how we need to choose, actually, that number. And then the next one is… so think, like, I'm doing a review analysis, right? And then for, kind of Amazon type of company. So, where multi-language, you know, comes to picture.
So, how we store, you know.
The embeddings, and then… and then how we search, what's the best way for that.

Vishal Nagpal
01:20:46
So, on your first question, the way, there's no right answer, like, so it is…
the answer is… is similar to the fact you said, okay, I want to do, like, fraud, like, what is the right model?
The answer will be, you never know, right? So it depends upon, like, what is your…
context, what is… what are you optimizing for? But what could be a starting point is, like, you think about from your product catalog, you say that, okay, hey, my product catalog is very diverse, oh, sorry, and each of them has so many features, so somewhere I feel that
having, like, a 300 and a 400 features would work out fine, right? You maybe start over there.
you say, okay, I'll start over there, and I don't think we'll have time to do the hands-on, but I'll ask the team to kind of share it with you guys, and then, as a part of that, the thing that happens is, like, you do a query, you retrieve, and you say, okay, am I getting the relevant results or not?
the moment you said that, okay, maybe I'm not getting the relevant results, you said, okay, let me change my embedding model. So… so I'll quickly…
at least share one thing. I'll just quickly share the screen.
Sometime.
So, if you think about… And…
I hope this is for similar.

Jagabandhu Malik
01:22:13
Yeah.

Vishal Nagpal
01:22:14
So, this is, like, on a hanging face, you can go in your kind of the leaderboard. On the leaderboard, you'll have, like, various embedding bottles, on…
on, text, image, and all of that, and then it has, like, various ways on the classification, clustering. One of the things that works a lot is on the retrieval.
Which is, pretty important. And then you could start from there and say, okay, which is a model that works out best, and then, you can, choose places that. So that would be your… one of your starting pointers.

Jagabandhu Malik
01:22:48
Yeah, thank you.

Vishal Nagpal
01:22:49
And I think you had another question on.

Jagabandhu Malik
01:22:54
Multi-language, you know.

Vishal Nagpal
01:22:55
One language, yes, yeah.
Yeah, so, so, some of…
the folks who do it, I'm not an expert on it, so don't quote me, and don't think it has the right answer.
But the way, unfortunately, some of the ways it happens is, like, you will use, like, a translation model.
So… so, for instance, if you think about it from our existing LLMs, one of the advantages that we have is, like, already have a product space, or a vector space, where there is
There is a similarity.
Right? So, if you think about it, if I… if I use some of the LLMs today, Oh…
I don't know, maybe high and aloha? I think it's the right context. They… they're very similar.
Because, I've already created those models, which is the advantage that we have in this generation and this time that we are in, which has already done that work.
Now, basically, what I need is, when the query happens, right.
let's assume that you are in a Spanish country, and you are typing in Spanish.
I need a conversion… I need to use the same embedding model to kind of go back in there and search in the space. My product catalog could be in English.
But because of the fact those LLMs have actually already done the work.
Which is the advantage that we have.
I'll still be able to kind of translate that query into a dynamic meeting space and get the right product.

Jagabandhu Malik
01:24:37
Okay.

Vishal Nagpal
01:24:38
Choosing your… the right embedding model to make sure that you have
that vector space where multi-language is there, but then, mind you, what happens is that that becomes an embedding model, which is very complex. It will have, like, a lot more features, a lot more compute, a lot more storage, because your dimensional space is now increasing.
So… so that is the thing that you need to keep in mind, that is it the right thing to do? Is it… is it a justified thing to do or not?

Jagabandhu Malik
01:25:05
So that means, actually, you said that maybe it's a kind of custom model, you know, or somebody's already developed…

Vishal Nagpal
01:25:13
It's already there. It's already there. Like, right now, if… if you…
Go on to, like, any kind of,
use some of the longer models, if you use some of your, even the ChatGPTs. ChatGPT is not a right example, it has, like, I don't know how many, God knows how many trillions of tokens, but then…
any smaller, like a 70 billion or 100 billion modules, they've cracked the linguistic part of it, right? So if you use some of those embedding models, which power those.

Jagabandhu Malik
01:25:47
Okay. Thanks for your vote.

Vishal Nagpal
01:25:49
Is what I'm saying.

Jagabandhu Malik
01:25:50
Yes, thank you.

Vishal Nagpal
01:25:54
Journey?

Jaini Desai
01:25:56
Yeah.
Hello, Vishal, good morning. My question just goes back to the example that you had mentioned regarding a Walmart search for Apple. So I actually tried when you were talking about the example, and the first two searches were related to Apple products, the third one came to buy fresh apples online.
I was wondering if the… if a strat… the probability of Apple being searched as a product is being considered as, like, an electronics item, and then the… why it was the first two and not, and my fresh apple was third. So, do they consider the probability?

Vishal Nagpal
01:26:34
So, the way it works is, like, there is no right answer to it. The reason is because every company will do it differently. So, let's assume that for…
like I said, and that's what my… if you remember that slide, there is a business rules part of it. Some companies will say that, okay, I… my… my margin will kind of,
Or my average order value will supersede everything else. Some company will say, hey, by the way, Jenny is buying more into groceries, so yeah.
most companies do the third thing, which is what you saw. They will show you, like, a cluster of products, or they'll show you multiple product categories, so that we
So, in the ambiguous queries, there are two concepts, right? So you, you show the results, and then you get more context about that query.
And the way you get more context about that query is by showing these multiple cluster of products, which you kind of saw. So you saw Apple products, and here you also saw Apple groceries. Now, let's assume you click on Apple Groceries, let's assume.
now I know my… what is your intent? You are looking for groceries. And then I say, okay, maybe she is looking for groceries, let me show also bananas, let me also show oranges.
That is why it's a step-step process. So that is the best approach that most companies typically do.

Jaini Desai
01:27:54
Sounds good, thank you so much. So it's part of the strategy, as well as the probability, or maybe, like, if I had logged in into my Walmart account, they would have seen my pattern of shopping, and then…
She just suggested that she might be hungry.

Vishal Nagpal
01:28:05
Okay.

Jaini Desai
01:28:06
Looking for a grocery.

Vishal Nagpal
01:28:08
etc.

Jaini Desai
01:28:08
And I had a… thank you so much. And I had one more question. Now, with AI being… are there embedding models being updated or enhanced to be AI compatible? Like, now I don't even do, probably, Google search. I would just go, give me the best deal for a flight, or a product, where could I get it?
So, is that being… all the queries and embeddings are being enhanced?

Vishal Nagpal
01:28:34
So the way it is happening is, like, it's a very different world, out there. But for that to happen, what most companies are doing is they're integrating their products, product catalogs with these AI systems.
When that happens, I'm…
The insider information is, like, they have a different embedding system, so my AI system will have a different embedding space.
The reason why it will be a different embedding space is, like, if they are looking at Amazon products, they'll not just look at Amazon products, they also have to look at Walmart products, they'll also look at Best Buy products and all of that.
for that to bring it into an embedding space, they can't use the one that is used only by Amazon, so they'll have to kind of create a different one. So if your question was, like, our…
where that embedding space happens. That embedding space happens outside of those e-commerce companies. Those are…
owned by those AI companies in that sense.

Jaini Desai
01:29:36
Got it. Thank you so much.

Vishal Nagpal
01:29:40
Okay.

Ankit Tiwari
01:29:43
Sir, my question was this, actually. After all, we have done TF, IDF, and what I'm adding.
What could be the, implementing manner by which we can, actually implement those things in a search, to, to search that result?
to, filter out, and to be at the priority list, like, for example, like ma'am has said,
Like, for example, Apple is researched at the top, and some of the words are omit auto, and filtered to be at the lowest point.
How can we implement that?
That is my question.

Vishal Nagpal
01:30:28
So, the way you can implement this, you can create… so, what happens is, like.
you have the ranking of a baratam, like I was telling you, right?
So, in that ranking algorithm, you can kind of define what you want to do.
So, for instance, you have, like, 10 products that are being shown.
Let's assume Apple product is 1, Apple product is 2, and then your Apple groceries in store. In that ranking algorithm.
That ranking algorithm typically works on probability, like, what is my probability conversion, what is my probability, and that conversion could be a factor of my, click, it could be a factor of my past budget, it could be a factor of margins, and so on and so forth, right?
In that sense, you could say that, okay, even though my probability
of whatever that you're optimizing for is still lower, but I want to change the order, so you could change in that ranking algorithm, and have, like, Apple
cross-phase, and then other two products in that sequence, so it could still change. What I'm trying to say is, like, you don't have to change anything in your embedding space, which is what's the beauty of it. Your embedding space could still be the same, so my Apple, as a… let's assume, as a product.
is still somewhere closer to Apple as a grocery, but what you can… or maybe dissimilar as well in some ways, only the brand is, or the brand name is similar, but what you could do is that you could… in your ranking algorithm, you can change it, and you can play around with that.
Nothing to do with the embedding space.

Ankit Tiwari
01:32:04
If we go for an optimization, apart from the curriculum, I want to add one thing. Apart from the curriculum, if I want my sales to be optimized in that manner, that it could store all the datas.
And, those data can be,
search in that manner, and that it can, my category of list comes in the topmost list of the layer.
And other, categories which are… which are… which has been, like, other, other companies which are being part of that, that are being filtered out, like, in TFIDF, where, as you can, as we have learned earlier,
So, in that manner, it is, it is being, in, like, TensorFlow. We have done that, we have, we have seen that,
It has been, circulated in that manner that it, it is…
Came around that kind of search result.
So, how can we actually, do that in that manner?

Vishal Nagpal
01:33:20
So your question is, like, if you have to Make that modifications?
And how we are searching? Is… is that the question? Or, like…
Or how do we, from an architecture perspective, what changes needs to be done?

Ankit Tiwari
01:33:38
Architecture point of view.

Vishal Nagpal
01:33:41
That's what I said, you don't need to change anything from an architecture standpoint. See, it's a question, like, okay, we…
I don't want to be in a position where I… I'm a person with a hammer, and I'm looking for a nail, right? So why would you change the architecture? The only thing that you need to change is the algorithm, which kind of gives you the ranking.
Right? So, or how you're kind of showing it. So there are two places where you can make the changes. You don't have to change in your architecture.
most people do changes in the ranking algorithm. Some… there are ways in which what you can do is, like I was telling you, before.
We go or hit our vector database.
we… there is a NER algorithm which will say, okay, this search means this.
what can be done is, like, you can say is, like, when I search for an apple.
I could say that, okay, send for Apple Electronics, and search for Apple.
groceries.
The other thing that you could do is, like, hey, by the way, don't search for Apple Electronics, only search for Apple queries.
That is another place where you can do it. I said, okay, I'm only sending search for Apple queries. The moment you do that, you'll only get to search for Apple. So my point is, like.
I'll be happy to… if you come back to me and say, hey, by the way, this is the way in which we can change the architecture. Maybe it can be, nothing that I'm aware of, but in this context, it can still be solved for without that architecture change, and maybe those are the things that you can try, if you have to try.
So, sure.

Ankit Tiwari
01:35:20
Thank you.

Sushrut Das
01:35:22
Yes. One query, like, whatever we have done today, what kind of project we would…
be facing similar to this embedding, or what… how, in future projects, what all is going to come up?

Vishal Nagpal
01:35:39
Yeah, so that is something that you can check with the teams. I'm just,
Part of, the…
industry, so I'm not closely aware about that. I'm sure they should be able to help you on specific projects, but what I can tell you is, like,
Anything that you want to do on optimizing?
the… the search, like, for instance, one of the things that you can experiment on is, like.
what is the various ways in which I can use my embedding models, right? That could be one of the ways, right? Okay, if I do this embedding model, I'm getting this. If I do this embedding model, I do, I'm getting these retrievers. So you could do experimentation on various embedding models.
The other thing that you could play around with, again, please work with your mentors and guides on it.
Is, like, right now, if you think about it, you could actually do
you could play around with an embedding model, which is not just text-based. It could be text plus multilingual, like, one other person had a question, like, you could try on a multilingual embedding model and say, okay, is this working or not?
Third could be you could try an embedding model, which is multi-modal, which is, like, you could say, okay, I'm trying an embedding model, which is
Image plus text. Now, would that work?
That is something you need to check, right? Because right now, if you go onto Amazon, if you go onto some of these companies, you can actually take an image of the product, and you can also search for it. And the way it is kind of…
enabled is because my… somewhere in my vector database, in my varying model, I have both images and, those multifolds as well. So, so yeah, so those are a few
suggestions, but then, yeah, I'm not sure if…
I'm the right person to kind of comment on that or not.

Sushrut Das
01:37:34
Even for audio, we can do similar embedding.

Vishal Nagpal
01:37:37
Yeah, sure, why not? Why not?
prefer.

Sushrut Das
01:37:42
Okay, okay. So, in case of, multiple, search, some… once it is audio, once it is image, once it is word, so, even… I think the optimization process also gets more complex, what I understand.

Vishal Nagpal
01:38:00
Picture?
Hey, Sharp.
Yeah, you're right.
But then, the way you need to think about it is, like, how… your…
Embedding space is able to kind of, bring them into the same
space, like, in the same domain, irrespective of if it's an audio, it's a video, it's an image, or so on and so forth. So, yeah.
HubSpot more complex.

Sushrut Das
01:38:24
Yes, thank you.

Vishal Nagpal
01:38:28
I know we are on top of time.
Mayuri, let's take a question.

Mayuri
01:38:32
Yeah, hi.
Hi Vishal, this is Mari here. As you mentioned, Apple and Apple, right? The word-to-word research. What about the sentence? Like, can I visualize with the sentence embedding?

Vishal Nagpal
01:38:46
you can visualize with sentencing. Give me an example, like, what do you like…

Mayuri
01:38:51
suppose, not with Amazon or other this, but for ChatGPT or OpenAI, if I search something with the sentence. So, can I visualize there also?

Vishal Nagpal
01:39:04
visualize, like, if you search for it, this is how it is translating into my vector space? Is that what your question is?

Mayuri
01:39:11
Yep.

Vishal Nagpal
01:39:13
Yeah, that you can. You don't need ChatGPT for that.
you can use your embedding model, it can give you, like, okay, what is my equivalent, embedding code? So yeah, I will… I will share with you that collab sheet. It does not have that details, but then, you can… you can play around with that, and then that should be the case. Basically, what you'll get is, like, an in-dimensional vector as well.
Okay. If it's a 3-vector, you'll get, like, X, Y, and Z. But if it's a 760 dimensions, think about it that you'll get X, Y, Z, and so on and so forth, A, B, C, V, N. I'm getting a point, right? So, that's fine. But yeah, you can, you can visualize, you can get all of that results.

Mayuri
01:39:53
Okay, and one more question, right? You mentioned in your slide, we can visualize in 2D, right? Can we visualize in 3D as well?

Vishal Nagpal
01:40:03
You can try, you can try that to kind of…
convert that, into 3D space, yes, you can do that, yes. So basically, you need a converter from that end to 3-dimensional to 2-dimensional space, yes, that can happen.
Yes.

Mayuri
01:40:19
Yeah, thank you.

Vishal Nagpal
01:40:21
No problem.
Alright,
That was, what I had. We've run out of time. Sorry, I know there were a lot of questions, but then, we…
could not go through, the collapse sheet, but then, I'll have the team kind of send that over.
Alright, thanks a lot.
For, say, Afront, we'll sign off now


